#59 AdnSkinMerge Documentation (#65)
Inbibo/adonisfx_docs: docs/maya/skin_merge.md

# AdnSkinMerge

> AdnSkinMerge is a Maya deformer to merge animation geometries with the results provided by AdnSkin. This deformer allows for the merging of several animation and simulation meshes into a single final mesh.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AdnSkinMerge is a Maya deformer to blend animation and simulation together. It allows for the merging of several animation and simulation meshes into a single final mesh.
```

Author: Done!

> The influence simulation or animation meshes will have on the final mesh can be freely painted and modified by painting a blends weight map.

Reviewer 2: Would this be more correct (I may  be wrong)?
```suggestion
The influence simulation or animation meshes will have on the final mesh can be freely painted and modified by painting a blend weight map.
```

Author: Corrected!

### How To Use

AdnSkinMerge makes use of its own User Interface to create and modify the deformer.

To create an AdnSkinMerge deformer within a Maya scene, the following inputs must be provided:

  - **Final Mesh (F)**: Mesh to apply the merge results.
  - **Animation Mesh List (Al)**: Mesh(es) to drive the simulation skin.

>   - **Simulation Mesh List (Sl)**: Mesh(es) with AdnSkin deformer applied.

Reviewer 2: Same question as before, could the user provide a mesh which has already the results of the skin simulation?

Author: Yes! Applied your suggestion.

The process to create an AdnSkinMerge deformer is:

> 1. Press ![Skin button](images/adn_skin_merge.png){style="width:4%"} in the AdonisFX shelf or *Skin Merge* in the AdonisFX menu, under the *Deformers* submenu in the *Create* section.

Author: Done!

> 1. Press ![Skin merge button](images/adn_skin_merge.png){style="width:4%"} in the AdonisFX shelf or *Skin Merge* in the AdonisFX menu, under the *Deformers* submenu in the *Create* section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Press ![Skin merge button](images/adn_skin_merge.png){style="width:4%"} in the AdonisFX shelf or *Skin Merge* in the AdonisFX menu, under the *Deformers* submenu in the *Create* section to open the UI.
```

Author: Done!

> 2. The following UI will get displayed. From here the required meshes for the deformer will be selected and added. At least one mesh must be added in each field to be able to create the deformer. A custom name and initialization time can also be set in this UI.

Reviewer: I would separate in different steps:
2- Add the final mesh
3- Add the animation and simulation meshes taking into consideration the following requirements:
    - At least one mesh must be added in each field.
    - To add meshes to any list, select the meshes in the scene and click the respecitve *Add Selected* button.
    - If you wish to remove a single element from the list, select it in the Skin Merge UI and press the *Remove Selected* button.
    - You may also clear any list fully by pressing the respective *Clear* button.
4. Set a custom name to the deformer and specify the initialization time.

Author: Done!

>     - To add meshes to any list, select the meshes in the scene and click the respecitve "Add Selected" button.
>     - If you wish to remove a single element from the list, select it in the Skin Merge UI and press the "Remove Selected" button.
>     - You may also clear any list fully by pressing the respective "Clear" button.

Reviewer 2: I think button names are referenced with italic style (if so please check other references to buttons):
```suggestion
    - To add meshes to any list, select the meshes in the scene and click the respecitve *Add Selected* button.
    - If you wish to remove a single element from the list, select it in the Skin Merge UI and press the *Remove Selected* button.
    - You may also clear any list fully by pressing the respective *Clear* button.
```

Author: Done!

>     - You may also clear any list fully by pressing the respective *Clear* button.

Reviewer: We should add that duplicated meshes is not allowed, as well as the same mesh in both anim and sim list is not allowed either

Author: Same mesh in both lists is allowed but not recommended, we display a warning message, but it is allowed.
I have added two additional points detailing this.

<figure markdown>
  ![create skin merge UI](images/create_skin_merge.png) 
  <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: Create Skin Merge UI.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 3. Once everything has been set up, press the "Create" button. A message box will notify you that AdnSkinMerge has been created properly, meaning that the meshes have been merged into the final mesh. However, the final mesh will follow only the animation meshes by default, go to the[paintable weights](#paintable-weights) section to see how to add influence from the simulated meshes.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
3. Once everything has been set up, press the "Create" button. A message box will notify you that AdnSkinMerge has been created properly, meaning that the meshes have been merged into the final mesh. However, the final mesh will follow only the animation meshes by default, go to the [paintable weights](#paintable-weights) section to see how to add influence from the simulated meshes.
```

> 3. Once everything has been set up, press the "Create" button. A message box will notify you that AdnSkinMerge has been created properly, meaning that the meshes have been merged into the final mesh. However, the final mesh will follow only the animation meshes by default, go to the [paintable weights](#paintable-weights) section to see how to add influence from the simulated meshes.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Once everything has been set up, press the "Create" button. A message box will notify you that AdnSkinMerge has been created properly, meaning that the meshes have been merged into the final mesh. However, the final mesh will follow only the animation meshes by default, go to the ![paintable weights](#paintable-weights) section to see how to add influence from the simulated meshes.
```

Author: This has been overwritten by another comment!

> 3. Once everything has been set up, press the "Create" button. A message box will notify you that AdnSkinMerge has been created properly, meaning that the meshes have been merged into the final mesh. However, the final mesh will follow only the animation meshes by default, go to the [paintable weights](#paintable-weights) section to see how to add influence from the simulated meshes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Press the "Create" button and a message box will notify you that AdnSkinMerge has been created properly. The final mesh will follow the animation mesh inputs by default.
4. To modulate the influence of the simulation mesh inputs, use the maya paintable context and customize the blend weights map.
```

Author: Done!

> Once we have an AdnSkinMerge deformer created, if we wish to modify its input meshes (be it the Animation Mesh List, the Simulation Mesh List or both) we may follow this process:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once we have an AdnSkinMerge deformer created, if we wish to modify its input meshes (animation mesh list, simulation mesh list or both) we may follow this process:
```

Author: Done!

1. Go to *Deformers > Skin Merge* in the AdonisFX menu, under the *Edit* section.

> 2. The following UI will get displayed. Here you will see listed the current animation and simulation meshes the deformer has connected. From this UI you may freely add or remove from either list (at least one element must be present in each list to be able to apply the changes). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The following UI will get displayed. Here you will see listed the current animation and simulation meshes the deformer has connected. From this UI you may freely add or remove from either list. Note that at least one element must be present in each list to be able to apply the changes. 
```

Author: Done!

<figure markdown>
  ![edit skin merge UI](images/edit_skin_merge.png) 
  <figcaption><b>Figure 2</b>: Edit Skin Merge UI.</figcaption>
</figure>

3. Once everything has been set up, press the "Apply changes" button. A message box will notify you that AdnSkinMerge has been edited properly.

## Attributes

### Time Attributes
| Name | Type | Default | Animatable | Description |
| :--- | :--- | :------ | :--------- | :---------- |

> | **Initialization Time** | Time | *Current frame* | ✓ | Sets the frame at which the deformer will be initialized. |

Reviewer 2: Is this attribute animatable? Looking at the AdnSkin page it seems that "Start Time" is not animatable.

Author: Hmmm I set it as animatable because it is set as such in the Edge Evaluator page, but you are righ. I have corrected it.

> | **Initialization Time** | Time | *Current frame* | ✗ | Sets the frame at which the deformer will be initialized. |

Reviewer: Add Envelope

Author: I initially didn't add it because we didn't mention it in other deformers, but given how this is a Maya deformer it makes sense to add it, I have added it.

## Attribute Editor Template

<figure markdown>
  ![AdnSkinMerge editor](images/attribute_editor_skin_merge.png)
  <figcaption><b>Figure 3</b>: AdnSkinMerge Attribute Editor</figcaption>
</figure>

## Paintable Weights
| Name | Default | Description |
| :--- | :------ | :---------- |

> | **Blend**       | 0.0 | Weight to modulate the influence the simulation meshes have over the animation meshes. Hiher values will add more influence of the simulation meshes over the final mesh.<ul><li>*Tip*: Paint only over areas where animation and simulation meshes overlap.</li></ul> |

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| **Blend**       | 0.0 | Weight to modulate the influence the simulation meshes have over the animation meshes. Higher values will add more influence of the simulation meshes over the final mesh.<ul><li>*Tip*: Paint only over areas where animation and simulation meshes overlap.</li></ul> |
```

Author: Done!

> | **Blend**       | 0.0 | Weight to modulate the influence the simulation meshes have over the animation meshes. Higher values will add more influence of the simulation meshes over the final mesh.<ul><li>*Tip*: Paint only over areas where animation and simulation meshes overlap.</li></ul> |

Reviewer: Add also "Weight", which is the default weight attribute (as any other maya deformer) to determine the influence of the deformer over the input geometry

Author: Added!

<figure markdown>

>   ![AdnSkinMerge editor](images/skin_merge_blend_weights.png)

Reviewer: I have checked this image and I strongly believe that it is not smoothed enough. I would imagine that the transition from black to white is completely smoothed out. Can you please double check? If you have doubts, it would be cool to ask Lorena's opinion. Thanks!

Author: I based my painting on the video released on linkedin where we showcased the skin merge. If you wish, however, I can add more smoothing to the painting.

Author: Updated the screenshot!

AdnSkinMerge is a Maya deformer to blend animation and simulation together. It allows for the merging of several animation and simulation meshes into a single final mesh.

The influence simulation or animation meshes will have on the final mesh can be freely painted and modified by painting a blend weights map.

### How To Use

AdnSkinMerge makes use of its own User Interface to create and modify the deformer.

To create an AdnSkinMerge deformer within a Maya scene, the following inputs must be provided:

  - **Final Mesh (F)**: Mesh to apply the merge results.
  - **Animation Mesh List (Al)**: Mesh(es) to drive the simulation skin.
  - **Simulation Mesh List (Sl)**: Mesh(es) with either an AdnSkin deformer applied or with the results from the skin simulation applied.

The process to create an AdnSkinMerge deformer is:

1. Press ![Skin merge button](images/adn_skin_merge.png){style="width:4%"} in the AdonisFX shelf or *Skin Merge* in the AdonisFX menu, under the *Deformers* submenu in the *Create* section to open the following UI.

<figure markdown>
  ![create skin merge UI](images/create_skin_merge.png) 
  <figcaption><b>Figure 1</b>: Create Skin Merge UI.</figcaption>
</figure>

> 2. With the UI open select the final mesh in the scene and press the *Add Selected* button in the *Final Mesh* section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. With the UI opened select the final mesh in the scene and press the *Add Selected* button in the *Final Mesh* section.
```

or simply

```suggestion
2. In the UI select the final mesh in the scene and press the *Add Selected* button in the *Final Mesh* section.
```

Author: Done! Applied the second suggestion, simple and more to the point.

3. Add the animation and simulation meshes taking into consideration the following requirements:
    - At least one mesh must be added in each field.
    - To add meshes to any list, select the meshes in the scene and click the respecitve *Add Selected* button.
    - Adding the same mesh twice to a list is not supported.

>     - Adding the same mesh as a Simulation Mesh and as an Animation Mesh is not adviced but it is supported.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Adding the same mesh as a Simulation Mesh and as an Animation Mesh is not adviced.
```

Author: Done!

    - If you wish to remove a single element from the list, select it in the Skin Merge UI and press the Remove Selected button.
    - You may also clear any list fully by pressing the respective Clear button.

4. Set a custom name to the deformer and specify the initialization time.

5. Press the *Create* button and a message box will notify you that AdnSkinMerge has been created properly. The final mesh will follow the animation mesh inputs by default.

6. To modulate the influence of the simulation mesh inputs, use the maya paintable context and customize the blend weights map.

Once we have an AdnSkinMerge deformer created, if we wish to modify its input meshes (animation mesh list, simulation mesh list or both) we may follow this process:

1. Go to *Deformers > Skin Merge* in the AdonisFX menu, under the *Edit* section.

> 2. The following UI will get displayed. Here you will see listed the current animation and simulation meshes the deformer has connected. From this UI you may freely add or remove from either list Note that at least one element must be present in each list to be able to apply the changes. 

Reviewer: I think we need a blank line between items in a list for proper rendering.

Author: Done!

> 2. The following UI will get displayed. Here you will see listed the current animation and simulation meshes the deformer has connected. From this UI you may freely add or remove from either list Note that at least one element must be present in each list to be able to apply the changes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. The following UI will get displayed. Here you will see listed the current animation and simulation meshes the deformer has connected. From this UI you may freely add or remove from either list. Note that at least one element must be present in each list to be able to apply the changes. 
```

Author: Done!
